OSDOCS-15215#Volume populators TP > GA (#96030)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/persistent-storage-csi-vol-populator-procedure.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-vol-populators.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="persistent-storage-csi-vol-populator-procedure_{context}"]
= Creating prepopulated volumes using volume populators

The following procedure explains how to create a prepopulated persistent volume claim (PVC)  using the example `hellos.hello.example.com` Custom Resource Definition (CRD) created previously. In this example, rather than creating an actual data source, you are creating a file called "example.txt" that contains the string "Hello, world!" in the root directory of the volume.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to a running {product-title} cluster.

* There is an existing custom resource definition (CRD) for volume populators.

.Procedure

> . Create an instance of the `hello, world` CRD with the text "Hello, World!" by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a Custom Resource (CR) instance of the `Hello` CRD with the text "Hello, World!" passed in as `fileContents` parameter by running the following command:
```

- CRD is called `Hello`, created in previous step
- now we're creating custom resource that has to conform to the CRD (which is kind of a schema)

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-vol-populators.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="persistent-storage-csi-vol-populator-procedure_{context}"]
= Creating pre-populated volumes using volume populators

> The following procedure explains how to use a custom data source, using the example 'hello, world' Custom Resource Definition (CRD) created previously, to create a pre-populated persistent volume claim (PVC)."

Reviewer 2: For clarity sake, we should mention what it does i.e create a file called example.txt that contains the string "Hello, world!" in the root directory of the volume.

Reviewer: Absolutely, there is no real "custom data source" in this case, it's just a populator creating a file with some content passed in as a parameter (in the dataSourceRef field). In real use case there would be some real source, like a bucket for example.

Author: Done.
